.Dd May 08, 2019
.Dt CSV 1 LOC
.Sh NAME
.Nm csv
.Nd Comma Separated Value file manipulation utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar field_spec
.Op Fl s Ar separator_char
.Op Fl h
.Op \- | Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads file or standard input if no file is specified, and print result in standard output.
If FILE is absent, or equals `-`,
.Nm
reads from standard input.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -item
.It
.Fl f , Fl -fields
Specify the fields to output, first starts at 1
.It
.Fl s , Fl -separator
Change the field separator, default is ','
.It
.Fl h , Fl -help
inline documentation
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Outputs few column of a CSV file:
.D1 $ Nm Fl f Ar 1,5,8,42 Ar file.csv
.Pp
Outputs few column of a SCSV file:
.D1 $ Nm Fl s Ar ';' Fl f Ar 1,5,8,42 Ar file.scsv
.Pp
Use the output of a command with pipe:
.D1 $ fun_stuff | Nm Fl f Ar 3,5,42
.Sh CONFORMING TO
Follow the RFC 4180(URL: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4180) by default.
Further release may allow to change default separator character, in order to use a semi colon as an example.
.Sh LIMITATIONS
In order to operate as fast as possible, the current implementation limits to 256 the number for fields that can be handled in the source stream.
Further release may be more flexible and self scales to the number of columns in the source stream.
.Sh LICENSE
Copyright (C)2019,
.An "Guillaume Wallet" Aq Mt wallet.guillaume@gmail.com .
.Pp
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.Pp
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU Lesser General Public License (URL: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html) for more details.
